W-14237985 mtf (#232)
mulesoft/docs-mule-sdk: modules/ROOT/pages/munit-extensions-maven-plugin.adoc

= Operating the MUnit Extensions Maven Plugin
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

Learn how to run your tests by using the MUnit Extensions Maven plugin.

== Run MUnit Tests for a Module Project

To run MUnit tests for your module:

[source,console]
----
mvn clean verify
----

== Run a Specific MUnit Test Suite

You can instruct the MUnit Extensions Maven plugin to run tests that belong only to a specific test suite by using the `munit.test` property:

[source,console]
----
mvn clean verify -Dmunit.test=<regex-test-suite>
----

> The `munit.test` property accepts regular, Java expressions applied to the name of the MUnit test suite file. The path is relative to `src/test/munit`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `munit.test` property accepts regular Java expressions applied to the name of the MUnit test suite file. The path is relative to `src/test/munit`.
```

= Operating the MUnit Extensions Maven Plugin
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

> Learn how to run your tests using the MUnit Extensions Maven plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Learn how to run your tests by using the MUnit Extensions Maven plugin.
```

> Learn how to run your tests using the MUnit Extensions Maven plugin.

Reviewer: Consider putting statements about MUnit leveraging Java remote debugging and Maven here (if that works.) I think these statements interfere with the main points later on.

Author: I think this info should live in the debugging section since the info pertains to that

== Run MUnit Tests for a Module Project

To run MUnit tests for your module:

[source,console]
----
mvn clean verify
----

== Run a Specific MUnit Test Suite

> You can instruct the MUnit Extensions Maven plugin to run tests that only belong to a specific test suite by using the `munit.test` property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can instruct the MUnit Extensions Maven plugin to run tests that belong only to a specific test suite by using the `munit.test` property:
```

[source,console]
----
mvn clean verify -Dmunit.test=<regex-test-suite>
----

> The `munit.test` property accepts regular expressions. The expression is applied to the name of the MUnit test suite file. The regular expression language is the Java implementation. This path is relative to `src/test/munit`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `munit.test` property accepts regular, Java expressions applied to the name of the MUnit test suite file. The path is relative to `src/test/munit`.
```

For example:

[source,console]
----
mvn clean verify -Dmunit.test=.*my-test.*
----

You can leverage this feature by adding naming conventions to your MUnit test suites.

== Run Specific MUnit Tests

> In the same way that you instruct MUnit to run one test suite, you can also instruct MUnit to run a specific test inside that test suite. To do so, use the `munit.test` property, with one addition:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the same way that you instruct MUnit to run one test suite, you can also instruct MUnit to run a specific test inside that test suite. To do so, use the `munit.test` property, followed by `#` and the test name:
```

[source,console]
----
mvn clean verify -Dmunit.test=<regex-test-suite>#<regex-test-name>
----

> The addition is the special character `#`. After `#`, you can type the test name. It also accepts regular expressions. The expression is applied to the attribute `name` of the MUnit test.

Reviewer: What does "It" refer to in "It also accepts regular expressions"?

> The addition is the special character `#`. After `#`, you can type the test name. It also accepts regular expressions. The expression is applied to the attribute `name` of the MUnit test.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The test also accepts regular expressions applied to the `name` attribute:
```

For example:

[source,console]
----
mvn clean verify -Dmunit.test=.*my-test.*#.*test-scenario-1.*
----

> [TIP]

Reviewer: Do you need this admonition? We are trying not to overuse these.

--

> The tests inside the MUnit test suite that don't match the regular expression are flagged as *ignored*.

Reviewer: Can you make this active?

--

== Run Tests Using a Specific Tag

> You can choose to run only the tests that you grouped under one specific tag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can choose to run only the tests that you grouped under one specific tag:
```

[source,console]
----
mvn clean verify -Dmunit.tags=<munit-tag>
----

== Skip All Tests

> When building your module, you can prevent a test from running. MUnit leverages the same mechanism as Maven, so use the `skipTests` parameter to skip tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When building your module, you can prevent a test from running. MUnit leverages the same mechanism as Maven, so use the `skipTests` parameter to skip tests:
```

Reviewer: Do you need to say that MUnit leverages the same mechanism as Maven here? If not:
 "When building your module, you can prevent a test from running by using the `skipTests` parameter.

[source,console]
----
mvn clean verify -DskipTests
----

== Debug Tests

> When testing your module, you can debug your code. MUnit leverages Java remote debugging, so use the `munit.debug` parameter to debug your tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When testing your module, you can debug your code. MUnit leverages Java remote debugging, so use the `munit.debug` parameter to debug your tests:
```

[source,console]
----
mvn clean verify -Dmunit.debug
----

> [TIP]

Reviewer: Do you need this admonition? We are trying not to overuse these.

--
The default debugger listens on port 5005. You can override the debugger JVM argument line by specifying it as the value of the property:

> mvn clean verify -Dmunit.debug="-agentlib:jdwp=transport=dt_socket,server=y,suspend=n,address=8002"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`mvn clean verify -Dmunit.debug="-agentlib:jdwp=transport=dt_socket,server=y,suspend=n,address=8002"`
```
